skills/conductor/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: conductor
description: |
  Context-driven development methodology for organized, spec-first coding. Use when:
  - Project has a `conductor/` directory
  - User mentions specs, plans, tracks, or context-driven development
  - Files like `conductor/tracks.md`, `conductor/product.md`, `conductor/workflow.md` exist
  - User asks about project status, implementation progress, or track management
  - User wants to organize development work with TDD practices
  - User invokes `/conductor-*` commands (setup, newtrack, implement, status, revert, validate, block, skip, revise, archive, export)
  
  Interoperable with Gemini CLI extension and Claude Code commands.
---

# Conductor: Context-Driven Development

Measure twice, code once.

## Overview

Conductor enables context-driven development by:
1. Establishing project context (product vision, tech stack, workflow)
2. Organizing work into "tracks" (features, bugs, improvements)
3. Creating specs and phased implementation plans
4. Executing with TDD practices and progress tracking

## Context Loading

When this skill activates, load these files to understand the project:
1. `conductor/product.md` - Product vision and goals
2. `conductor/tech-stack.md` - Technology constraints
3. `conductor/workflow.md` - Development methodology (TDD, commits)
4. `conductor/tracks.md` - Current work status

For active tracks, also load:
- `conductor/tracks/<track_id>/spec.md`
- `conductor/tracks/<track_id>/plan.md`

## Proactive Behaviors

1. **On new session**: Check for in-progress tracks, offer to resume
2. **On task completion**: Suggest next task or phase verification
3. **On blocked detection**: Alert user and suggest alternatives
4. **On all tasks complete**: Congratulate and offer archive/cleanup

## Intent Mapping

| User Intent | Command |
|-------------|---------|
| "Set up this project" | `/conductor-setup` |
| "Create a new feature" | `/conductor-newtrack [desc]` |
| "Start working" / "Implement" | `/conductor-implement [id]` |
| "What's the status?" | `/conductor-status` |
| "Undo that" / "Revert" | `/conductor-revert` |
| "Check for issues" | `/conductor-validate` |
| "This is blocked" | `/conductor-block` |
| "Skip this task" | `/conductor-skip` |
| "This needs revision" / "Spec is wrong" | `/conductor-revise` |
| "Archive completed" | `/conductor-archive` |
| "Export summary" | `/conductor-export` |

## References

- **Detailed workflows**: [references/workflows.md](references/workflows.md) - Step-by-step command execution
- **Directory structure**: [references/structure.md](references/structure.md) - File layout and status markers

Commit message:

feat(refresh): Add /conductor-refresh command for context sync
- Add new refresh command to sync context docs with codebase state
- Support scopes: all, tech, product, workflow, track [id]
- Add staleness detection (2 days threshold) to validate workflow
- Add proactive behavior to suggest refresh when context is stale
- Create refresh_state.json for tracking refresh history
- Update all documentation: README, CLAUDE.md, skills, workflows

skills/conductor/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: conductor
description: |
  Context-driven development methodology for organized, spec-first coding. Use when:
  - Project has a `conductor/` directory
  - User mentions specs, plans, tracks, or context-driven development
  - Files like `conductor/tracks.md`, `conductor/product.md`, `conductor/workflow.md` exist
  - User asks about project status, implementation progress, or track management
  - User wants to organize development work with TDD practices
  - User invokes `/conductor-*` commands (setup, newtrack, implement, status, revert, validate, block, skip, revise, archive, export, refresh)
  - User mentions documentation is outdated or wants to sync context with codebase changes
  
  Interoperable with Gemini CLI extension and Claude Code commands.
---

# Conductor: Context-Driven Development

Measure twice, code once.

## Overview

Conductor enables context-driven development by:
1. Establishing project context (product vision, tech stack, workflow)
2. Organizing work into "tracks" (features, bugs, improvements)
3. Creating specs and phased implementation plans
4. Executing with TDD practices and progress tracking

## Context Loading

When this skill activates, load these files to understand the project:
1. `conductor/product.md` - Product vision and goals
2. `conductor/tech-stack.md` - Technology constraints
3. `conductor/workflow.md` - Development methodology (TDD, commits)
4. `conductor/tracks.md` - Current work status

For active tracks, also load:
- `conductor/tracks/<track_id>/spec.md`
- `conductor/tracks/<track_id>/plan.md`

## Proactive Behaviors

1. **On new session**: Check for in-progress tracks, offer to resume
2. **On task completion**: Suggest next task or phase verification
3. **On blocked detection**: Alert user and suggest alternatives
4. **On all tasks complete**: Congratulate and offer archive/cleanup
5. **On stale context detected**: If setup >2 days old or significant codebase changes detected, suggest `/conductor-refresh`

## Intent Mapping

| User Intent | Command |
|-------------|---------|
| "Set up this project" | `/conductor-setup` |
| "Create a new feature" | `/conductor-newtrack [desc]` |
| "Start working" / "Implement" | `/conductor-implement [id]` |
| "What's the status?" | `/conductor-status` |
| "Undo that" / "Revert" | `/conductor-revert` |
| "Check for issues" | `/conductor-validate` |
| "This is blocked" | `/conductor-block` |
| "Skip this task" | `/conductor-skip` |
| "This needs revision" / "Spec is wrong" | `/conductor-revise` |
| "Archive completed" | `/conductor-archive` |
| "Export summary" | `/conductor-export` |
| "Docs are outdated" / "Sync with codebase" | `/conductor-refresh` |

## References

- **Detailed workflows**: [references/workflows.md](references/workflows.md) - Step-by-step command execution
- **Directory structure**: [references/structure.md](references/structure.md) - File layout and status markers
